---
title: SteamCannon Recap for Dec 4 - 10
author: Ben Browning
layout: news
---

In this week's update we have a great presentation given on
SteamCannon by Marek Goldmann, organizations, a change in version
schemes, and an update on the next release.

Enjoy!

Ben

________________

## SteamCannon Recap for Dec 4 - 10

1) Marek Goldmann (@marekgoldmann on Twitter, mgoldmann on freenode)
gave a great presentation on SteamCannon at Java Night 2010 in
Utrecht, Netherlands. You can find a copy of his slides here  
<http://www.slideshare.net/marekgoldmann/java-night-2010-steamcannon>

2) Organizations have landed in git HEAD. When a user first signs up
they are made an organization admin and can invite other users to join
their organization. Right now users within an organization are
independent except that they all share the same set of Amazon
credentials. This allows one user to manage the credentials for many
developers.

3) We've changed SteamCannon's version scheme to be more consistent
with other projects. Instead of versions like 1.0.0.Beta1,
1.0.0.Beta2, we've moved to pure numerics. What was version
1.0.0.Beta1 is now referred to as 0.1.0 and the upcoming release will
be 0.2.0. We're still working towards a stable 1.0 release with the
same speed as before but feel the new scheme represents our status
more clearly.

4) Our next release, 0.2.0, is scheduled for December 22nd. To see
what's included and track the progress of this and future release,
visit our road map in JIRA.  
<https://issues.jboss.org/browse/STEAM#selectedTab=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.project%3Aroadmap-panel>
