---
title: SteamCannon Recap for Nov 23 - Dec 3
author: Ben Browning
layout: news
---

This week's recap is a bit longer than usual, with a look at some
upcoming features, updates on API progress, and a welcome to the
Makara team.

Enjoy!

Ben

________________

## SteamCannon Recap for Nov 23 - Dec 3

1) Each environment now keeps an event log which records all actions
on the environment as well as its instances and storage volumes.

2) If the cloud provider returns an error, that error is now passed
from Deltacloud to SteamCannon and logged into the environment
log. Previously SteamCannon only knew something went wrong but not the
exact error.

3) Environments containing a PostgreSQL image mount a storage volume
for persisting the database data. The details of this storage volume
are now visible on the environment details page, including a link to
delete the storage volume if you choose to preserve it when stopping
the environment but since decided it was no longer needed.

4) All of the platforms have been upgraded from JBoss AS6 M5 to JBoss
AS6 CR1. Release notes for JBoss AS6 CR1 are here:  
<http://community.jboss.org/wiki/AS600CR1ReleaseNotes>

5) Work is progressing nicely on providing a Deltacloud-compatible API
endpoint for each environment. The higher-level SteamCannon API for
managing environments and deploying artifacts still has some design
work but code should start flowing for that shortly.

6) In case you missed the announcement, Red Hat acquired Makara and
their PaaS technology. We welcome Makara to Red Hat and look forward
to working with them. Bob has a blog post with a few more details:  
<http://steamcannon.org/news/2010/11/30/makara-paas/>
