---
title: SteamCannon Recap for Dec 11 - Jan 14
author: Ben Browning
layout: news
---

Welcome back from the holidays! This recap highlights some of the big
upcoming features and invites you to hang out with the SteamCannon
team at the Magic Ruby conference.

Enjoy!

Ben

________________

## SteamCannon Recap for Dec 11 - Jan 14

1) In case you missed it, SteamCannon 0.2.0 was released on Dec
22. This is our second release and has some great new features over
0.1.0.  
<http://steamcannon.org/news/2010/12/22/steamcannon-0-2-0/>

2) We've added support for all four EC2 regions (we previously only
supported us-east-1).  Organizations now have cloud profiles, which
allow you to access multiple regions or multiple EC2 accounts. Cloud
profiles also lay the ground work for supporting clouds other than
EC2. This will be included in our upcoming 0.3.0 release.

3) The SteamCannon API has been extended beyond the basic Deltacloud
implementation provided in 0.2.0 to provide more REST-ful
goodness. Clients of the API now have access to environments,
artifacts, deployments and cloud profiles. API clients can launch
environments, deploy and undeploy artifacts, and obtain status and
metadata about running instances. We also provide a fairly basic Ruby
client now in lib/steamcannon/client.rb that exposes many of these
features. This will be included in our upcoming 0.3.0 release.

4) Work has started on supporting VirtualBox as a SteamCannon
cloud. This will allow a user to download and play with SteamCannon by
starting and stopping virtual machines on their local machine instead
of in Amazon EC2. You'll be able to launch and scale a full cluster
(to the limits of the machine you're running it on) without needing an
AWS account or being billed. We hope to make this available in the
upcoming 0.3.0 release.

5) Speaking of the 0.3.0 release, we've scheduled it for Feb 1. If you
have any bugs or feature requests you'd like to see in the next
release, let us know within the next week.

6) Our friend Jim Crossley from the TorqueBox project will be
presenting at Magic Ruby in Orlando, FL, Feb 4 - 5. Toby and I will be
there as well so if you're attending feel free to stop by to chat with
us about TorqueBox, SteamCannon, BoxGrinder, or anything else.  
<http://torquebox.org>  
<http://magic-ruby.com>
